this is what we've been speculating on
for years and and even when I was still
working at an agency four years ago I
remember
one of my mentors he he said one day
it's just going to be
you just with the Google ads you just
enter your your landing page you throw
in a coin and you say okay this is what
I want to achieve and then you connect
your credit card and boom Google does
the rest and we were all laughing about
it yeah that's the future
and it kind of is what it is we're kind
of at that stage now where you just add
your url let's see you you say something
about your products and your services
and and then some additional information
and then Google is going to give you the
outline for your campaign
welcome back to the PPC Mastery podcast
smiles here with another solo episode
and in this episode I'm actually going
to touch on 12 new performance Max
updates that Google announced somewhere
around June July and they're actually
rolling them out now in Q3 Q4 so in this
episode I just wanted to take you
through these 12 uh upcoming pmax
updates
and I've already seen that Google has
rolled some of them out in some of my
accounts so as I go through them I will
just tell you okay this is still to be
rolled out soon or this is being rolled
out now or has been rolled out
um and I think these updates are a
really nice Google announced them at
performance performance Max conference
in Dublin which was a live event but I
watched the live stream
I think it was around two and a half
hours and they just
dumped all the most important upcoming
updates which is which is great to see
and it really feels like performance Max
is becoming more of the product that we
wanted it to be from the beginning and
if I look back now then I definitely see
that performance Max was or at least
felt like an unfinished product but now
with all of the recent changes that
Google is launching it feels like it's
becoming much more usable and we get a
bit more control a bit more insights and
yeah let's just let's just run through
so you can definitely see that Google is
doubling down on AI throughout all of
their campaign types but especially
performance Max bmax campaigns are
totally heavily built on on AI so to me
that doesn't really come to come as a
surprise that they are talking more
about AI but they're also embedding new
prompt-based AI tools like
which could work similarly to chatgpt
they are going to embed that inside of
Google ads which I will be talking about
in a second
now in Google's propaganda language they
say these are the benefits of using Ai
and advertising so they started off
their session with the yeah I think they
kind of felt the need to Showcase why AI
is actually a good thing not a bad thing
so this is from their mouth not mine
simplifying complexity for people
businesses and marketers with AI or
marketing is Multiplied and AI can help
boost productivity and these three
things is how they sort of bucketed the
the updates so they want to make it
easier simplifying complexity they want
to make it easier for people to find the
information that they're looking for so
the people that are actually searching
on Google or on YouTube Etc
but they also want to simplify the setup
for businesses and marketers and as you
probably know launching performance Max
campaigns is super easy but it's
actually much harder to optimize if you
don't know what you're doing with AI
your marketing is Multiplied so that in
what they mean with that it's just that
it's constantly working for you and ai
ai can help boost productivity which I
will jump on in a second but to them
that means that they want to make it
easier to set up campaigns and and
streamline the campaign setup process to
make it easier with embedded AI inside
of Google ads so
here are the 12 updates in three
categories the first one is controls to
guide AI the second one is ease of use
and workflows and the third one is
proving value and insights that's how
Google has categorized these updates
so the first one controls to guide AI
new inputs to steer performance Max
campaigns towards business outcomes
first update is Page feeds and this is a
the one that I'm most excited about and
I'm actually testing this now in an
account I have it has been rolled out to
one of my accounts and with page feeds
you can get a bit more control over the
DSA Dynamic search as functionality of
performance Max so
if you if you use the final URL
expansion feature then pmax can also
take other landing pages to Target your
your ads to when it comes to the search
Network just like how it would work with
DSA but the only problem with that that
I always had is that pmax can take any
landing page
from your website and if you use page
feeds then you can set up a feed with
different URLs landing pages and then
you can say I only want to Target these
pages in my page feed the landing pages
in my page feed
if final URL expansion is still on then
in Google can also still Target any
other landing page so you need to turn
that off and then it can only take page
landing pages from your page feed which
you can actually
configure on the asset group level which
is which is really neat so I think
I think that page feeds are going to
give us back a lot of control and it's
going to be more fun to test yeah in in
performance Max
so the second one re-engagement goals
and and actually that's a third one as
well new customer life cycle goals these
are similar to how new customer
acquisition goals work the only
difference is they may not or yeah they
have specific pockets of customers that
they go after so with re-engagement
goals
you let the algorithm optimize for
disengaged customers so this is a
particularly nice for brands that want
to focus on retention and re-engage old
customers you with re-engagement goals
you use first party data so customer
lists to predict and steer on labs to
user so
customers that were customers like let's
say six months ago and therefore it is
really crucial that you have solid high
value first party data that's just
that's just why what it runs on
basically so re-engagement goals
are really good for retention and and
reactivating lapsed users or
reactivating old customers
now the next one is new customer
lifecycle goals and with new customer
lifecycle goals you can get you can let
smart bidding optimize for high value
customers instead of just any
existing or new customer and
we'll see how this plays out I'm not a
particularly a fan of using new customer
acquisition goals or this kind of new
customer lifecycle goals you really need
to set it up and configure it really
well in order to let smart bidding
optimize for these pockets of clients
that you want and you need to always
analyze this against overall data from a
third-party attribution tool for example
because from my experience what happens
with for example new customer
acquisition goals is that the data in
Google ads is just going to get inflated
so I'm curious how to see how this plays
out I like that Google is launching
something like this like that that
allows you to focus on more of the high
value customers with potentially High
lifetime value but we'll see
all right the next one account level
negatives I think this was already
rolled out a while ago in a lot of
accounts but seems like they wanted to
emphasize this and it's getting rolled
out so account level negatives to
exclude Search terms across all of your
campaigns but I already had it in some
accounts so I don't really think this is
too new
next one campaign level brand exclusions
with this feature you can exclude
branded Search terms from pmax campaigns
and this excludes them from search and
shopping placements so I like this
because if you've been following me for
a while you know that I've
had my issues with bmax because it loves
to take credit for any convergence
including branded conversions which
heavily inflates the data and up until
now I've always used the negative
keyword list work around where you just
create a negative keyword list then you
ask support to add it to your campaign
and then you can add your negative
keywords whether it's branded or any
other one so that negative keyword list
that is connected to your pmax campaign
now with with brand exclusions there's a
sort of a predefined brand list and if
you're a brand name if there's not a
list with your brand name yet you can
apply for Google to create it and then
it excludes from certain shopping
placements I've seen some people
complain about that it doesn't exclude
misspellings but in theory it should do
that so keep an eye on it when you when
you use it
the next one and that's the last one in
this first category of controls to guide
AI is smart bidding optimized for
in-store sales so I can keep this one
short this is great if you want to focus
on physical stores they want to
stimulate football in your physical
stores
okay so the second category is ease of
use and workflows the goal of these
updates according to Google
improving the campaign construction
workflow to support optimal setup okay
that's a that's Google's words but in
other words Google wants to make it even
easier to create campaigns by embedding
Ai and recommendations in the setup
process
recommendations in the setup process
we'll see how that goes okay update
seven create assets with generative AI
tools yeah this is really this has gone
really nice so
inside of Google ads inside the
interface it's going to be easier to
create and edit assets images videos Etc
based on AI so I'm curious to see how
this goes the example that Google showed
looked really solid but what we'll have
to see but it is promising and I think
this is going to make it a lot easier
for
Brands and advertisers to create images
and also alter images in in something
like product Studio
so number eight integrated
recommendations during campaign setup
yeah again Google wants to make it
easier for you to launch and set up your
campaigns especially for smaller
advertisers smaller companies
now
here's the thing you just enter your URL
and some basic information about your
products or brand and Google then
creates a complete campaign outline so I
haven't seen this yet in Google ads I
think they are rolling it out in Q4 but
I already see a ton of red flags like
recommendations and I I this is what
we've been speculating on for years and
and when even when I was still working
at an agency four years ago I remember
one of my mentors he he said one day
it's just going to be
you just with the Google ads you just
enter your your landing page you throw
in a coin and you say okay this is what
I want to achieve and then you connect
your credit card and boom Google does
the rest and we were all laughing about
it yeah that's the future
and it kind of is what it is we're kind
of at that stage now where you just add
your url let's see you you say something
about your products and your services
and and then some additional information
and then Google is going to give you the
outline for your Campaign which is good
to potentially to good to start with but
you still need to do
solid keyword research add good assets
make sure that the campaign structure is
good landing pages are good Etc so I
think
smaller businesses that are going to set
up their own Google ads are going to be
surprised by how easy it is to set it up
but then they will find out like okay I
have no idea if this is any good I have
no idea what to do now how to optimize
and that's when we Google ad Specialists
still have have a time and place to to
come in
Okay the third one the third category is
proving value and insights so the goal
of these insights are these updates
according to google provide tools to
quantify the value of pmax and offer
insights on what's driving performance
in other words Google wants to help you
prove the value of pmax with new
features so you can allocate more spend
to it most likely update number nine
performance Max experiments so I love
this because we can finally a B test
pmax campaigns and I I I have
experiments in my in my accounts but
only the older ones where you can test
standard shopping versus pmax or test
the uplift of performance Max
but soon
we will be able to a B test two
different pmax campaigns against each
other and that allows us to test
different bit strategies placements
different assets
use finding URL expense and yes or no
use page feeds yes or no it's going to
be really nice to to a B test these um
yeah pmax campaigns and I'm super super
excited for this
okay the next one number 10 better
search term insights I think this is
rolled out now by now to all accounts
and I love this or at least all not all
accounts actually one of my accounts
doesn't have it yet another the rest
does with
these new insights you can add custom
date ranges you can export more data
before it was only the last seven and
last 28 days but now you can do entire
date ranges and Search terms have been
able to access through the API and
people have built scripts to yeah export
those into spreadsheets Etc
and yeah I love this I love this update
it feels like
something basic like Search terms and
we're really happy with this now but
yeah let's let's just say let's not be
greedy I'm happy with this update but I
still again I have a question like why
wasn't this rolled out earlier but
anyway we have it now more search term
insights which I'm happy about for sure
okay so the last two number eleven
conversion lift studies with conversion
lift studies Google helps you understand
how many conversions of your pmax
campaigns were incremental so this is
something that they have available for
for example demand gen YouTube campaigns
and now with conversion live studies
Google also wants to prove what the
uplift is of using performance Max so
let's see how this goes I haven't seen
it yet I haven't tested it yet but I
have used conversion live studies in
YouTube and that works pretty well but
you should always compare your data
against your third-party attribution
just saying
okay and the last one number 12 update
number 12 improve merchant center
integration inside of Google ads
so with this I think this is nice Google
is
making a a bridge between Google
merchant center and Google ads and now
it's it's easier to see product issues
like for example if a product is
disapproved you will see that in Google
ads if it's not in a campaign different
Diagnostics stock issues all that stuff
that you generally see in merchant
center will now also be embedded inside
of Google ads which is which is great
so
those are the 12 updates let me just
name them from the top once again page
feeds re-engagement goals new customer
lifecycle goals account level negative
keywords campaign level brand exclusion
smart bidding Force in-store sales
create assets with generative AI
integrated recommendations during
campaign setup BMX experiments better
search some insights conversion if
studies improved integration of GMC in
Google ads so that's it guys my final
word don't test everything all at once
just check what's available in your
account and then get curious definitely
start testing the first thing that I
already tested as soon as it was was
available in my accounts was page feeds
but I'm also excited for the rest brand
exclusions I've also tested that let me
just go through the list and see what
I've already done account level negative
keywords I'm not too excited about
campaign level branding Solutions yes
page feeds yes I'm excited for the new
generative AI tools to see how that
works could go a lot of ways could be
really bad really trashy but it could
also be be really good and promising I'm
excited for Google product Studio which
hopefully I will get access to soon as
well yeah that's it guys so hopefully
this update helps you and and gets you a
bit more excited for what's to come with
pmax and if you have a question for me
to answer during this podcast then
please go to bbcmastery.com podcast and
I will see if I can answer some of your
questions in upcoming episodes so thank
you for listening watching if you're on
YouTube don't forget to like And
subscribe and share and all that good
stuff and I'll see you in the next one
peace
[Music]